Does history repeat itself, in which way does it repeat itself?
In which way does it not?
I'm afraid it repeats itself a lot. Um, so, uh, I,
I think human nature kind of is what it is.
And so we tend to see similar behavior patterns emerging
again and again. And so, uh, it's, it's kind of the,
uh, exception rather than the rule, when something new happens.
What role does technology play in the suppression or in revealing human
nature?
Well, the standards of living, uh, life expectancy,
all that have gotten incredibly better within the last,
particularly the last a hundred years, I mean, just antibiotics, uh,
modern vaccines, electrification, uh, the internet. Um,
these are all, uh,
improvements in most people's standard of living and health and longevity that,
um, that exceed anything that was seen before in,
in human history. Um, so, um, so people are living longer,
they're generally healthier and so on. Uh, but again, um,
we still see a lot of the same behavior patterns, some which are, uh,
not very attractive.
So some of it has to do with the constraints on resources,
presumably with technology, you have less and less constraints on resources.
So we get to maybe emphasize the better angels of our nature
and in, and so doing,
does that not potentially fundamentally alter the,
sort of the experience that we have of life on earth? Yeah. You know.
Until the last 10 or so years, I would've, uh,
taken that view I think, but, um, you know, uh,
people who will find ways to be, um,
to be divisive and angry, um,
if it scratches a kind of psychological itch that they have got. And, um,
we used to look at the Imar Republic. Um, what happened in the economic,
a collapse of Germany prior to, um, the,
the rise of Hitler, um, world war II, uh, and kind of, uh,
explain Hitler, at least partially by, um, just the,
the, the misery that people were living in at that time.
Um, the economic collapse.
Yeah. Hyperinflation and unemployment, and, um, the,
the decline in standard of, of living. And that sounds like a, a plausible, uh,
explanation, but there are economic troubles now, for sure,
we had the bank collapse in 2008, um,
and there's stagnation in some people's standards of living,
but it's hard to explain what we've seen in this country in the last few years,
just strictly on the basis of, uh, people are poor and angry and sad.
I think they want to be angry.
So without being political in a divisive kind of way,
can we talk about the lessons you can draw from world war II? Sure.
This singular event in human history, it seems like, yeah. And yet, as you say,
history rhymes at the very least you yeah.
Being who I am,
I tend to focus on the curious technological things that happened
in, in conjunction with that war. Right. Um,
which may not be where you want to go, but.
Uh, well, there's several things that start to interrupt. So one in crypto
noon is more like the Allen touring side of things. Yeah. Right. Right. Then,
and then there there's the outside of techno. Well, first of all,
there's the tools of war. Yeah.
Which is the kind of technology mm-hmm <affirmative>,
but then there's just like the human nature, the nature of good and.
Evil. Yeah. Well, so one of the things that emerges from, uh,
from the war and from the, um,
the extermination camps is that we were never allowed to have illusions anymore
about human nature. So you, you have to,
to learn that lesson to be an educated person,
and you have to know that that even in a supposedly, you know,
enlightened civilized society, people can become monsters quite easily.